next-skelton/README.md, before:

# Next Usage Docs
1. Clone project from remote.
```
git clone <repository>
```

2. Install modules.
```
yarn install
```

3. Start project on development mode.
```
yarn dev
```

4. Commit project
```
git add .
git commit -m "some message"
```
When running commit, it also runs git pre-commit hook.

5. Lint code (for tslint and stylelint check)
```
yarn lint
```

6. Detect difference between prittier, and tslint and stylelint
```
yarn lint-check
```

7. Test project
```
yarn test
```


# Getting Started Next Project
## Install Necessary Modules
```
yarn add next react react-dom
```

## Change Script in `package.json`
```
"scripts": {
  "dev": "next",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "next start"
}
```

## Setup Necessary Directries and Files
- `components`... For components. Great to group up files in here.
- `lib`... For modules and queries you created.
- `pages`... For page components, which consist of actual web pages.
- `server`... For express server, that runs next on server side.
- `static`... For images or icons, which is unnecessary to be changed.

## Create The Index Page
```
function HomePage() {
  return <div>Welcome to Next.js!</div>
}

export default HomePage
```

## Setup Tsconfig Page
### Install Dependencies
```
yarn add -D typescript
yarn add -D @types/react @types/react-dom @types/node
```

### Edit `tsconfig.json`
- The following is the example from the official doc
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "allowJs": true,
    "alwaysStrict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "isolatedModules": true,
    "jsx": "preserve",
    "lib": ["dom", "es2018"],
    "module": "esnext",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "noEmit": true,
    "noFallthroughCasesInSwitch": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "noUnusedParameters": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "strict": true,
    "target": "esnext"
  },
  "exclude": ["node_modules"],
  "include": ["**/*.ts", "**/*.tsx"]
}
```

- Editted like the followings:
```
"compilerOptions": {
  "lib": ["dom", "es2018"],
  ...
  "sourceMap": true,
  ...
  "noImplicitReturns": true, 
  "noImplicitThis": true,
  "noImplicitAny": true, 
  "strictNullChecks": true, 
  "suppressImplicitAnyIndexErrors": true, 
}
...
"exclude": ["node_modules", "jest"],
```

## Module Install
Reference(https://github.com/oukayuka/ReactBeginnersBook/tree/master/06-lint/03-mysetting)
- `prettier`... Core prettier module
- `tslint`... Core tslint module
- `tslint-config-airbnb`... One of tslint defact standards
- `tslint-config-prettier`... Detects conflict between prettier and tslint
- `tslint-plugin-prettier`... Combine prettier check with tslint running
- `stylelint`... Core stylelint module
- `stylelint-config-idiomatic-order`... Config for the order of stylesheet
- `stylelint-config-prettier`... Turn off unneccessary prettier config and detects conflict
- `stylelint-prettier`... Derive prettier config and override from prettier
- `postcss`
- `postcss-syntax`
- `lint-staged`... Runs tslint, etc. on staged files
- `husky`... Handles git pre-commit hooks

### `lint-staged`, `husky`
* Reference(https://kic-yuuki.hatenablog.com/entry/2019/05/27/090515)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D tslint lint-staged husky
```
2. `package.json`
```
"husky": {
  "hooks": {
    "pre-commit": "lint-staged"
  }
},
"lint-staged": {
  "*.{ts,tsx}": [
    "tslint --fix"
  ],
  "*.js": [
    "prettier --write"
  ],
  "*.css": [
    "stylelint --fix"
  ]
}
```

### `tslint`, `tslint-config-airbnb
* Reference(https://dev.to/oahehc/how-to-config-react-project-with-next-js-typescript-tslint-and-jest-11l0)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D tslint-config-airbnb tslint-config-prettier tslint-plugin-prettier
```
2. `tslint.json`
```
{
  "extends": [
    "tslint:latest",
    "tslint-config-airbnb",
    "tslint-config-prettier",
    "tslint-eslint-rules"
  ],
  "rulesDirectory": ["tslint-plugin-prettier"],
  "rules": {
    "import-name": false,
    "align": [true, "parameters", "arguments", "statements"],
    "function-name": [
      true,
      {
        "function-regex": "^[a-zA-Z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "private-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "protected-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "static-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$"
      }
    ],
    "max-line-length": [
      true,
      {
        "limit": 100,
        "ignore-pattern": "^import |^export {(.*?)}"
      }
    ],
    "no-implicit-dependencies": [true, "dev"],
    "prettier": [
      true,
      {
        "bracketSpacing": true,
        "printWidth": 80,
        "semi": true,
        "singleQuote": true,
        "trailingComma": "all",
        "useTabs": false
      }
    ],
    "variable-name": {
      "options": ["ban-keywords", "check-format", "allow-leading-underscore", "allow-pascal-case"]
    }
  }
}
```
3. `package.json`
```
{
  "scripts": {
  ...
  "lint": "tslint --project ./ --fix '{components,lib,pages}/**/*.{ts,tsx}'",
  "tslint-check": "tslint-config-prettier-check ./tslint.json"
  }
}
```
`tslint-config-prettier-check` checks conflict rules between prettier and tslint

### `prettier`
* Reference(https://qiita.com/akisx/items/4b90106c7faca4965852)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D prettier
```
2. `package.json`
```
{
  "scripts": {
    "prettier": {
      "bracketSpacing": true,
      "printWidth": 80,
      "semi": true,
      "singleQuote": true,
      "trailingComma": "all",
      "useTabs": false
    }
  } 
}
```
3. `./.vscode/settings.json` 
On save, prettier automatically formats code
```
{
  "editor.formatOnSave": true
}
```
- (Additional) Along with tslint
  - `tslint-config-prettier` detects conflicts
  - `tslint-plugin-prettier` runs prettier along with tslint

### `stylelint`
1. Command:
* Reference(
  https://github.com/prettier/stylelint-config-prettier
  https://wemo.tech/3307
  https://github.com/prettier/stylelint-prettier
  )
```
yarn add -D stylelint stylelint-config-idiomatic-order stylelint-config-prettier stylelint-prettier
```
2. `package.json` for stylelint config
```
"stylelint": {
  "plugins": [
    "stylelint-prettier"
  ],
  "extends": [
    "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order",
    "stylelint-config-prettier",
    "stylelint-prettier/recommended"
  ],
  "rules": {
    "prettier/prettier": [
      true,
      {
        "singleQuote": true,
        "indentation": 2
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
3. `package.json` for scrips
```
"scripts": {
  "lint": "yarn lint:tslint; yarn lint:stylelint",
  "lint:tslint": "tslint --project ./ --fix '{components,lib,pages,__test__}/**/*.{ts,tsx}'",
  "lint:stylelint": "stylelint '{components,lib,pages,__test__}/**/*.css' --fix",
  "lint-check": "yarn lint-check:tslint; yarn lint-check:stylelint",
  "lint-check:tslint": "tslint-config-prettier-check ./tslint.json",
  "lint-check:stylelint": "stylelint-config-prettier-check",
}
```

## Setup Test Environment
### `jest`, `Enzyme`
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D jest enzyme enzyme-adapter-react-16 babel-jest @types/jest @types/enzyme
```
2. `./config/setup.js`
```
const enzyme = require('enzyme');
const Adapter = require('enzyme-adapter-react-16');

enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```
3. `./jest.config.js`
```
module.exports = {
  roots: ['<rootDir>'],
  moduleFileExtensions: ['js', 'ts', 'tsx', 'json'],
  setupFiles: ['<rootDir>/config/setup.js'],
  testPathIgnorePatterns: ['<rootDir>[/\\\\](node_modules|.next)[/\\\\]'],
  transformIgnorePatterns: ['[/\\\\]node_modules[/\\\\].+\\.(ts|tsx)$'],
  testEnvironment: 'jsdom',
  testURL: 'http://localhost',
  transform: {
    '^.+\\.(ts|tsx)$': 'babel-jest',
  },
  testRegex: '/__test__/.*\\.(test|spec)\\.tsx?$',
};
```
4. Example: `./__test__/index.test.tsx`
```
import React from 'react';
import { mount } from 'enzyme';
import Index from '../index';

describe('index page', () => {
  it('should have App component', () => {
    const subject = mount(<Index />);

    expect(subject.find('App')).toHaveLength(1);
  });
});
```
5. `package.json`
```
"scripts": {
  ...
  "test": "jest --watchAll --verbose"
}
```
6. Yarn command:
```
yarn test
```

## Setup Nice-to-have Environtment
### Path Name Alias
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D babel-plugin-module-resolver
```
2. `.babelrc`
```
{
  "presets": [["next/babel"]],
  "plugins": [
    [
      "module-resolver",
      {
        "root": ["./"],
        "alias": {
          "@components": "./components",
          "~/lib": "./lib"
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```
3. `tsconfig.json`
```
"compilerOptions": {
  ...
  "baseUrl": "./",
  "paths": {
    "@components/*": ["./components/*"],
    "~/lib/*": ["./lib/*"]
  }
},
```

## `Material UI Settings`
### Instal Material UI
1. Command:
```
yarn add @material-ui/core @material-ui/icons
```
2. `Styeled Components` VS `Styled JSX`
* Reference(
  - https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components
)
```
yarn add styled-components
yarn add -D @types/styled-components
```
3. `/pages/_document.tsx`
* Reference(
  - https://github.com/zeit/next.js/blob/canary/examples/with-styled-components/pages/_document.js
  - https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/ssr-with-next-js-styled-components-and-material-ui-b1e88ac11dfa
)
* Points
  - Call `getInitialProps`. In here, return initialProps and styles from `ServerStyleSheet(s)`
  - `ServerStyleSheet(s)` is derived from both of `material-ui` and `styled-components`
  - Render `<HEAD />` with `<meta />` tags for charset, description and so on.
  - Include `<Main />` and `<NextScript />` tags in `<body />`

4. `/src/lib/page-context.ts` for the definition of the style theme
```
const theme = createMuiTheme({
  palette: {
    primary: {
      main: grey[900],
      dark: grey[600],
      light: grey[50],
    },
    secondary: {
      main: grey[500],
    },
    text: {
      primary: '#fafafa',
      secondary: '#757575',
    },
  },
});

```

5. `/page/_app.tsx`
* Reference(
  - https://qiita.com/Ouvill/items/c6761c32d31ffb11e114
  - https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/ssr-with-next-js-styled-components-and-material-ui-b1e88ac11dfa
)
* Points
  - Embed `ThemeProvider` which is derived from `material-ui` and `styled-components`
  - Inject both `ThemeProvider` to wrap descendant Components
  - Theme is imported from `page-content.ts` file to be set in `ThemeProvider`
  - When component mounted, `#jss-server-side` should be removed from `document`

Commit message:

install redux modules and setup actions to fetch users

next-skelton/README.md, after:

# Next Usage Docs
1. Clone project from remote.
```
git clone <repository>
```

2. Install modules.
```
yarn install
```

3. Start project on development mode.
```
yarn dev
```

4. Commit project
```
git add .
git commit -m "some message"
```
When running commit, it also runs git pre-commit hook.

5. Lint code (for tslint and stylelint check)
```
yarn lint
```

6. Detect difference between prittier, and tslint and stylelint
```
yarn lint-check
```

7. Test project
```
yarn test
```

# Getting Started Next Project
## Install Necessary Modules
```
yarn add next react react-dom
```

## Change Script in `package.json`
```
"scripts": {
  "dev": "next",
  "build": "next build",
  "start": "next start"
}
```

## Setup Necessary Directries and Files
- `components`... For components. Great to group up files in here.
- `lib`... For modules and queries you created.
- `pages`... For page components, which consist of actual web pages.
- `server`... For express server, that runs next on server side.
- `static`... For images or icons, which is unnecessary to be changed.

## Create The Index Page
```
function HomePage() {
  return <div>Welcome to Next.js!</div>
}

export default HomePage
```

## Setup Tsconfig Page
### Install Dependencies
```
yarn add -D typescript
yarn add -D @types/react @types/react-dom @types/node
```

### Edit `tsconfig.json`
- The following is the example from the official doc
```
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "allowJs": true,
    "alwaysStrict": true,
    "esModuleInterop": true,
    "forceConsistentCasingInFileNames": true,
    "isolatedModules": true,
    "jsx": "preserve",
    "lib": ["dom", "es2018"],
    "module": "esnext",
    "moduleResolution": "node",
    "noEmit": true,
    "noFallthroughCasesInSwitch": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "noUnusedParameters": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "strict": true,
    "target": "esnext"
  },
  "exclude": ["node_modules"],
  "include": ["**/*.ts", "**/*.tsx"]
}
```

- Editted like the followings:
```
"compilerOptions": {
  "lib": ["dom", "es2018"],
  ...
  "sourceMap": true,
  ...
  "noImplicitReturns": true, 
  "noImplicitThis": true,
  "noImplicitAny": true, 
  "strictNullChecks": true, 
  "suppressImplicitAnyIndexErrors": true, 
}
...
"exclude": ["node_modules", "jest"],
```

## Module Install
Reference(https://github.com/oukayuka/ReactBeginnersBook/tree/master/06-lint/03-mysetting)
- `prettier`... Core prettier module
- `tslint`... Core tslint module
- `tslint-config-airbnb`... One of tslint defact standards
- `tslint-config-prettier`... Detects conflict between prettier and tslint
- `tslint-plugin-prettier`... Combine prettier check with tslint running
- `stylelint`... Core stylelint module
- `stylelint-config-idiomatic-order`... Config for the order of stylesheet
- `stylelint-config-prettier`... Turn off unneccessary prettier config and detects conflict
- `stylelint-prettier`... Derive prettier config and override from prettier
- `postcss`
- `postcss-syntax`
- `lint-staged`... Runs tslint, etc. on staged files
- `husky`... Handles git pre-commit hooks

### `lint-staged`, `husky`
* Reference(https://kic-yuuki.hatenablog.com/entry/2019/05/27/090515)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D tslint lint-staged husky
```
2. `package.json`
```
"husky": {
  "hooks": {
    "pre-commit": "lint-staged"
  }
},
"lint-staged": {
  "*.{ts,tsx}": [
    "tslint --fix"
  ],
  "*.js": [
    "prettier --write"
  ],
  "*.css": [
    "stylelint --fix"
  ]
}
```

### `tslint`, `tslint-config-airbnb
* Reference(https://dev.to/oahehc/how-to-config-react-project-with-next-js-typescript-tslint-and-jest-11l0)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D tslint-config-airbnb tslint-config-prettier tslint-plugin-prettier
```
2. `tslint.json`
```
{
  "extends": [
    "tslint:latest",
    "tslint-config-airbnb",
    "tslint-config-prettier",
    "tslint-eslint-rules"
  ],
  "rulesDirectory": ["tslint-plugin-prettier"],
  "rules": {
    "import-name": false,
    "align": [true, "parameters", "arguments", "statements"],
    "function-name": [
      true,
      {
        "function-regex": "^[a-zA-Z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "private-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "protected-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$",
        "static-method-regex": "^[a-z$][\\w\\d]+$"
      }
    ],
    "max-line-length": [
      true,
      {
        "limit": 100,
        "ignore-pattern": "^import |^export {(.*?)}"
      }
    ],
    "no-implicit-dependencies": [true, "dev"],
    "prettier": [
      true,
      {
        "bracketSpacing": true,
        "printWidth": 80,
        "semi": true,
        "singleQuote": true,
        "trailingComma": "all",
        "useTabs": false
      }
    ],
    "variable-name": {
      "options": ["ban-keywords", "check-format", "allow-leading-underscore", "allow-pascal-case"]
    }
  }
}
```
3. `package.json`
```
{
  "scripts": {
  ...
  "lint": "tslint --project ./ --fix '{components,lib,pages}/**/*.{ts,tsx}'",
  "tslint-check": "tslint-config-prettier-check ./tslint.json"
  }
}
```
`tslint-config-prettier-check` checks conflict rules between prettier and tslint

### `prettier`
* Reference(https://qiita.com/akisx/items/4b90106c7faca4965852)
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D prettier
```
2. `package.json`
```
{
  "scripts": {
    "prettier": {
      "bracketSpacing": true,
      "printWidth": 80,
      "semi": true,
      "singleQuote": true,
      "trailingComma": "all",
      "useTabs": false
    }
  } 
}
```
3. `./.vscode/settings.json` 
On save, prettier automatically formats code
```
{
  "editor.formatOnSave": true
}
```
- (Additional) Along with tslint
  - `tslint-config-prettier` detects conflicts
  - `tslint-plugin-prettier` runs prettier along with tslint

### `stylelint`
1. Command:
* Reference(
  https://github.com/prettier/stylelint-config-prettier
  https://wemo.tech/3307
  https://github.com/prettier/stylelint-prettier
  )
```
yarn add -D stylelint stylelint-config-idiomatic-order stylelint-config-prettier stylelint-prettier
```
2. `package.json` for stylelint config
```
"stylelint": {
  "plugins": [
    "stylelint-prettier"
  ],
  "extends": [
    "stylelint-config-idiomatic-order",
    "stylelint-config-prettier",
    "stylelint-prettier/recommended"
  ],
  "rules": {
    "prettier/prettier": [
      true,
      {
        "singleQuote": true,
        "indentation": 2
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
3. `package.json` for scrips
```
"scripts": {
  "lint": "yarn lint:tslint; yarn lint:stylelint",
  "lint:tslint": "tslint --project ./ --fix '{components,lib,pages,__test__}/**/*.{ts,tsx}'",
  "lint:stylelint": "stylelint '{components,lib,pages,__test__}/**/*.css' --fix",
  "lint-check": "yarn lint-check:tslint; yarn lint-check:stylelint",
  "lint-check:tslint": "tslint-config-prettier-check ./tslint.json",
  "lint-check:stylelint": "stylelint-config-prettier-check",
}
```

## Setup Test Environment
### `jest`, `Enzyme`
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D jest enzyme enzyme-adapter-react-16 babel-jest @types/jest @types/enzyme
```
2. `./config/setup.js`
```
const enzyme = require('enzyme');
const Adapter = require('enzyme-adapter-react-16');

enzyme.configure({ adapter: new Adapter() });
```
3. `./jest.config.js`
```
module.exports = {
  roots: ['<rootDir>'],
  moduleFileExtensions: ['js', 'ts', 'tsx', 'json'],
  setupFiles: ['<rootDir>/config/setup.js'],
  testPathIgnorePatterns: ['<rootDir>[/\\\\](node_modules|.next)[/\\\\]'],
  transformIgnorePatterns: ['[/\\\\]node_modules[/\\\\].+\\.(ts|tsx)$'],
  testEnvironment: 'jsdom',
  testURL: 'http://localhost',
  transform: {
    '^.+\\.(ts|tsx)$': 'babel-jest',
  },
  testRegex: '/__test__/.*\\.(test|spec)\\.tsx?$',
};
```
4. Example: `./__test__/index.test.tsx`
```
import React from 'react';
import { mount } from 'enzyme';
import Index from '../index';

describe('index page', () => {
  it('should have App component', () => {
    const subject = mount(<Index />);

    expect(subject.find('App')).toHaveLength(1);
  });
});
```
5. `package.json`
```
"scripts": {
  ...
  "test": "jest --watchAll --verbose"
}
```
6. Yarn command:
```
yarn test
```

## Setup Nice-to-have Environtment
### Path Name Alias
1. Command:
```
yarn add -D babel-plugin-module-resolver
```
2. `.babelrc`
```
{
  "presets": [["next/babel"]],
  "plugins": [
    [
      "module-resolver",
      {
        "root": ["./"],
        "alias": {
          "@components": "./components",
          "~/lib": "./lib"
        }
      }
    ]
  ]
}
```
3. `tsconfig.json`
```
"compilerOptions": {
  ...
  "baseUrl": "./",
  "paths": {
    "@components/*": ["./components/*"],
    "~/lib/*": ["./lib/*"]
  }
},
```

## `Material UI` Settings
### Instal Modules
1. Command:
```
yarn add @material-ui/core @material-ui/icons
```
2. `Styeled Components` VS `Styled JSX`
* Reference(
  - https://github.com/styled-components/styled-components
)
```
yarn add styled-components
yarn add -D @types/styled-components
```
### Setup `_document.tsx` and `_app.tsx`
3. `/pages/_document.tsx`
* Reference(
  - https://github.com/zeit/next.js/blob/canary/examples/with-styled-components/pages/_document.js
  - https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/ssr-with-next-js-styled-components-and-material-ui-b1e88ac11dfa
)
* Points
  - Call `getInitialProps`. In here, return initialProps and styles from `ServerStyleSheet(s)`
  - `ServerStyleSheet(s)` is derived from both of `material-ui` and `styled-components`
  - Render `<HEAD />` with `<meta />` tags for charset, description and so on.
  - Include `<Main />` and `<NextScript />` tags in `<body />`

4. `/src/lib/page-context.ts` for the definition of the style theme
```
const theme = createMuiTheme({
  palette: {
    primary: {
      main: grey[900],
      dark: grey[600],
      light: grey[50],
    },
    secondary: {
      main: grey[500],
    },
    text: {
      primary: '#fafafa',
      secondary: '#757575',
    },
  },
});

```

5. `/page/_app.tsx`
* Reference(
  - https://qiita.com/Ouvill/items/c6761c32d31ffb11e114
  - https://medium.com/javascript-in-plain-english/ssr-with-next-js-styled-components-and-material-ui-b1e88ac11dfa
)
* Points
  - Embed `ThemeProvider` which is derived from `material-ui` and `styled-components`
  - Inject both `ThemeProvider` to wrap descendant Components
  - Theme is imported from `page-content.ts` file to be set in `ThemeProvider`
  - When component mounted, `#jss-server-side` should be removed from `document`

## `Redux` Settings
### Install Modules
- `redux`... For managing application state
- `react-redux`... Make React bindings for Redux
- `next-redux-wrapper`... wWrapper Redux for Next.js
- `redux-devtools-extension`... For debugging application’s state changes.(https://github.com/zalmoxisus/redux-devtools-extension — download extension for your browser)
- `redux-thunk`... Middleware allows you to write action creators that return a function instead of an action.
